docs: restructure persistence docs (#4163)
langchain-ai/docs: src/oss/langgraph/checkpointers.mdx

workflow.add_node(node_b)
workflow.add_edge(START, "node_a")
workflow.add_edge("node_a", "node_b")
workflow.add_edge("node_b", END)

checkpointer = InMemorySaver()
graph = workflow.compile(checkpointer=checkpointer)

config: RunnableConfig = {"configurable": {"thread_id": "1"}}
graph.invoke({"foo": "", "bar":[]}, config)
```
:::

:::js
```typescript
import { StateGraph, StateSchema, ReducedValue, START, END, MemorySaver } from "@langchain/langgraph";
import { z } from "zod/v4";

const State = new StateSchema({
  foo: z.string(),
  bar: new ReducedValue(
    z.array(z.string()).default(() => []),
    {
      inputSchema: z.array(z.string()),
      reducer: (x, y) => x.concat(y),
    }
  ),
});

const workflow = new StateGraph(State)
  .addNode("nodeA", (state) => {
    return { foo: "a", bar: ["a"] };
  })
  .addNode("nodeB", (state) => {
    return { foo: "b", bar: ["b"] };
  })
  .addEdge(START, "nodeA")
  .addEdge("nodeA", "nodeB")
  .addEdge("nodeB", END);

const checkpointer = new MemorySaver();
const graph = workflow.compile({ checkpointer });

const config = { configurable: { thread_id: "1" } };
await graph.invoke({ foo: "", bar: [] }, config);
```
:::

:::python

> After we run the graph, we expect to see exactly 4 checkpoints:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you run the graph, there will be exactly 4 checkpoints:
```

* Empty checkpoint with @[`START`] as the next node to be executed
* Checkpoint with the user input `{'foo': '', 'bar': []}` and `node_a` as the next node to be executed
* Checkpoint with the outputs of `node_a` `{'foo': 'a', 'bar': ['a']}` and `node_b` as the next node to be executed
* Checkpoint with the outputs of `node_b` `{'foo': 'b', 'bar': ['a', 'b']}` and no next nodes to be executed

> Note that we `bar` channel values contain outputs from both nodes as we have a reducer for `bar` channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the `bar` channel values contain outputs from both nodes as we have a reducer for `bar` channel.
```

:::

:::js

> After we run the graph, we expect to see exactly 4 checkpoints:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you run the graph, there will be exactly 4 checkpoints:
```

```python
# get the latest state snapshot
config = {"configurable": {"thread_id": "1"}}
graph.get_state(config)

# get a state snapshot for a specific checkpoint_id
config = {"configurable": {"thread_id": "1", "checkpoint_id": "1ef663ba-28fe-6528-8002-5a559208592c"}}
graph.get_state(config)
```
:::

:::js
When interacting with the saved graph state, you **must** specify a [thread identifier](#threads). You can view the _latest_ state of the graph by calling `graph.getState(config)`. This will return a `StateSnapshot` object that corresponds to the latest checkpoint associated with the thread ID provided in the config or a checkpoint associated with a checkpoint ID for the thread, if provided.

```typescript
// get the latest state snapshot
const config = { configurable: { thread_id: "1" } };
await graph.getState(config);

// get a state snapshot for a specific checkpoint_id
const config = {
  configurable: {
    thread_id: "1",
    checkpoint_id: "1ef663ba-28fe-6528-8002-5a559208592c",
  },
};
await graph.getState(config);
```
:::

:::python

> In our example, the output of `get_state` will look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the output of `get_state` will look like this:
```

```
StateSnapshot(
    values={'foo': 'b', 'bar': ['a', 'b']},
    next=(),
    config={'configurable': {'thread_id': '1', 'checkpoint_ns': '', 'checkpoint_id': '1ef663ba-28fe-6528-8002-5a559208592c'}},
    metadata={'source': 'loop', 'writes': {'node_b': {'foo': 'b', 'bar': ['b']}}, 'step': 2},
    created_at='2024-08-29T19:19:38.821749+00:00',
    parent_config={'configurable': {'thread_id': '1', 'checkpoint_ns': '', 'checkpoint_id': '1ef663ba-28f9-6ec4-8001-31981c2c39f8'}}, tasks=()
)
```
:::

:::js

> In our example, the output of `getState` will look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the output of `getState` will look like this:
```

:::

### Get state history

:::python
You can get the full history of the graph execution for a given thread by calling @[`graph.get_state_history(config)`][get_state_history]. This will return a list of `StateSnapshot` objects associated with the thread ID provided in the config. Importantly, the checkpoints will be ordered chronologically with the most recent checkpoint / `StateSnapshot` being the first in the list.

```python
config = {"configurable": {"thread_id": "1"}}
list(graph.get_state_history(config))
```
:::

:::js
You can get the full history of the graph execution for a given thread by calling `graph.getStateHistory(config)`. This will return a list of `StateSnapshot` objects associated with the thread ID provided in the config. Importantly, the checkpoints will be ordered chronologically with the most recent checkpoint / `StateSnapshot` being the first in the list.

```typescript
const config = { configurable: { thread_id: "1" } };
for await (const state of graph.getStateHistory(config)) {
  console.log(state);
}
```
:::

:::python

> In our example, the output of @[`get_state_history`] will look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the output of @[`get_state_history`] will look like this:
```

* `.put` - Store a checkpoint with its configuration and metadata.
* `.putWrites` - Store intermediate writes linked to a checkpoint (i.e. [pending writes](#pending-writes)).
* `.getTuple` - Fetch a checkpoint tuple using for a given configuration (`thread_id` and `checkpoint_id`). This is used to populate `StateSnapshot` in `graph.getState()`.
* `.list` - List checkpoints that match a given configuration and filter criteria. This is used to populate state history in `graph.getStateHistory()`
:::

:::python

### Serializer

When checkpointers save the graph state, they need to serialize the channel values in the state. This is done using serializer objects.

`langgraph_checkpoint` defines @[protocol][SerializerProtocol] for implementing serializers provides a default implementation (@[`JsonPlusSerializer`]) that handles a wide variety of types, including LangChain and LangGraph primitives, datetimes, enums and more.

#### Serialization with `pickle`

The default serializer, @[`JsonPlusSerializer`], uses ormsgpack and JSON under the hood, which is not suitable for all types of objects.

> If you want to fallback to pickle for objects not currently supported by our msgpack encoder (such as Pandas dataframes),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to fallback to pickle for objects not currently supported by the msgpack encoder (such as Pandas dataframes),
```
